The President of India, Smt Droupadi Murmu, presented the Sports and Adventure Awards 2024 at a function held at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (January 17, 2025).
The Awards include Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Awards-2024; Dronacharya Awards-2024; Arjuna Awards-2024; Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Awards-2023; Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar-2024; and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy-2024.
Hon'ble Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports and Labour & Employment Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya unveiled the Athletics Federation of India's new logo and interacted with Paris 2024 Olympic Games-bound track and field athletes competing in the National Inter-State Athletics Championships at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium here on Saturday.
Addressing the athletes heading to the Olympic Games and encouraging them, he said that all necessary help has been provided to all athletes for Paris Olympics.
Under Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji's leadership, Government is working to strengthen the sports infrastructure.
"The progress made in the field of sports in the last 10 years has been very encouraging," he said.
"I am confident that our athletes will perform their best in the Paris Olympic Games," he said.
The Union Sports Minister also presented medals to the winners of the National Interstate Athletics Championships.
Earlier in the day, Dr. Mandaviya visited the Netaji Subhash National Institute of Sports in Patiala and interacted with weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, Javelin Thrower Annu Rani and Shot Putter Abba Khatua as well as a number of other athletes and coaches in the National Centre of Excellence.
Preparation for International events including Olympics is an ongoing and continuous process.
The Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, National Sports Federations (NSFs), including the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), and Sports Authority of India (SAI) are working in close coordination for providing best facilities, training, equipment support, wholesome nutritious diet required for preparation of the Indian teams and sportspersons for the forthcoming international sports events, including the Olympics.
The selection for customized training of the elite athletes who are medal prospects for mega sports events is done through the Ministry's Mission Olympic Cell (MOC).
Performance review is also held at regular intervals by this mechanism.
The strategy adopted for the Paris Summer Olympics in 2024 aims for holistic preparation.
Twelve cities namely Amritsar, Ajmer, Amaravati, Dwaraka, Gaya, Kanchipuram, Mathura, Puri, Varanasi, Vellankani, Kedarnath and Kamakhya have been identified for development under Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spirituality Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) by the Ministry of Tourism.
The National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) scheme aimed at preserving and revitalizing heritage cities in India, has been approved by the Ministry of Urban Development for the twelve cities under the scheme in the first phase, namely; Varanasi; Amritsar; Ajmer; Mathura; Gaya; Kanchipuram; Vellankani; Badami; Amaravati; Warangal; Puri and Dwarka.
To implement the PRASAD scheme a Mission Directorate has been set up in the Ministry of Tourism.
The Budget provision of Rs.15.60 crore has been made in Revised Estimate (RE) 2014-15.
The Tourism and Culture Minister of Odisha, Shri Ashok Chandra Panda met the Union Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge), Tourism (Independent Charge), Civil Aviation, Dr. Mahesh Sharma in New Delhi today.
Shri Panda briefed the Minister about the potential for giving boost to tourism in the state by promoting the rich cultural heritage of the state and improving connectivity.
Sh. Panda sought help from the Union Tourism and Culture Minister to set up a Tagore Cultural Complex, Odisha dance Museum in memory of Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra, and also setting up an International Museum Day at Puri.
He further requested the release of funds worth Rs.8 crore for 8 Projects for which utilization certificates have already been sent to the Union Ministry of Tourism.
Some of these important projects include development of Buddhist Circuit, Silk Route, development of Golden Triangle among others.
Shri Ashok Panda said that connectivity is an important factor to facilitate the growth of tourism to a destination.
Although Bhuwaneswar was declared an International Airport in 2013 and has a new state of the art terminal, there is no International flight from the Airport till date, he said.
Shri Panda requested that International carriers be allowed to operate from Bhuwaneswar Airport and as well as Air India should also operate an international flight from there.
Dr. Mahesh Sharma appreciated the efforts being made by the State of Odisha to promote Culture and Tourism and generate employment and income for the local people.
Dr Sharma said that the demands of the state are genuine and assured all possible help of the Central Government to the State of Odisha.
Telangana Chief Minister Revanth Reddy has inaugurated the Experium Park, emphasising the government's commitment to developing eco-tourism, temple tourism and medical tourism in the state.
He highlighted the state's natural and cultural heritage and announced plans to introduce a comprehensive tourism policy soon.
Expressing his delight at the launch of the eco-tourism park, he said the park is a step towards promoting sustainable tourism.
He said the government is not only focusing on IT and Pharma development but also on tourism, which has immense potential.
The Chief Minister stressed the need to promote temple tourism along with ecotourism, stating that Telangana is home to architectural marvels like the Ramappa Temple and the Thousand Pillar Temple as well as natural wonders like the Nallamala Forests.
Stating that many people travel to other states to visit temples and forest areas, the Chief Minister asserted that Telangana has the resources to become a prime tourism destination.
The Experium Park has been developed on 150 acres with over 25 thousand rare species of plants at a cost of over 150 crore by an Individual.
Indian Railways has made meticulous plans to cater to the rush of a large number of devotees attending the ongoing Mahakumbh at Prayagraj on the occasion of Mauni Amavasya tomorrow.
Talking to the media, Railway Board Chairman and CEO Satish Kumar said that Railways has decided to operate 60 more special trains in addition to the already planned special trains.
He said, with this the total number of special trains to be run on the occasion of Mauni Amavsya will be around 190. Mr. Kumar also informed us that in addition to these special trains, 110 regular trains designated on the route will run as usual.
He said the train will be available for the passengers every 4 minutes from Prayagraj.
Mr. Kumar added that Railways is working to ensure better arrangements for the devotees in close coordination with the Uttar Pradesh government.
Tourists have been flocking to Mangan district in North Sikkim over the past two months, marking a strong revival in tourism.
Tourist visits to the area came to a halt in October 2023 due to floods triggered by a glacial lake outburst.
North Sikkim was reopened to tourists on December 1 last year.
Akashvani's Correspondent reports North Sikkim is a favourite destination for domestic as well as international tourists.
This part is known for frequent snowfalls during the winter period and tourists visit destinations including Lachen, Lachung, and Yumthang.
The hotel industry, travel agents and transporters had to suffer massive losses over the past 15 months due to a lack of tourism activities.
However, the re-opening of tourism activities has brought joy to the local people and industry.
North Sikkim shares a border with China and for this tourists visiting the high altitude destinations need permission from the authority.
In Kerala, four persons including two women drowned after they were swept away by strong waves off Thikkodi beach in Kozhikode last evening.
The mishap took place when five persons, part of a group from Kalpetta in Wayanad district, ventured into the sea.
Local people and fishermen pulled them out of the water, but the lives of four could not be saved.
One woman, who was rescued, has been admitted to a hospital.
The group, comprising 26 persons, were members and staff of a local gym in Kalpetta and had visited the beach on a leisure trip.
Uttar Pradesh government has declared the entire Maha Kumbh Mela area in Prayagraj as a no-vehicle zone from today.
The decision has been taken to ensure smooth management of the massive crowds expected at Mauni Amavasya on 29th January.
The Integrated Control and Command Center has been activated to monitor crowd density and ensure that no excessive gathering takes place at Sangam Nose.
Quick-response teams have been deployed in high-density areas to handle emergencies.
In Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Railways marked yet another milestone in its journey of engineering excellence and connectivity enhancement as the prestigious Vande Bharat Express train successfully crossed two iconic railway bridges, the Chenab Bridge and the Anji Khad Bridge.
The one-way trial run of the first Vande Bharat Express train from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Railway Station, Katra, to Budgam has been successfully completed on Saturday.
The train arrived in the Jammu Division yesterday and reached Srinagar today.
Vande Bharat Express ICF rakes 49 and 80 have been nominated for commercial operation in the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) section.
These Vande Bharat Express trains are uniquely designed for cold conditions during the winter season with feature advanced technologies to ensure comfort, safety, and reliability.
The train also passed through the iconic Anji Khad Bridge, India's first cable-stayed rail bridge, and the Chenab Bridge, which is the world's highest railway bridge.
Specially designed to withstand the cold climate of the Kashmir Valley, this is the third Vande Bharat train introduced for Jammu & Kashmir, but the first to serve the Kashmir Valley.
The Northern Railway zone will oversee its operations and maintenance.
The train includes advanced heating systems to prevent the freezing of water and bio-toilet tanks.
It also features a unique air-brake system and warm air circulation to ensure smooth operation in sub-zero temperatures.
Additional modifications include embedded heating elements in the windshield to clear frost during harsh winters.
Triple-layered windscreens with heating filaments provide clear visibility for the driver, even during snowfall.
These enhancements make the train capable of operating efficiently in temperatures as low as -30°C.
The Railways has completed the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) project, spanning 272 kilometers.
Once operational, the Vande Bharat Express is expected to significantly reduce the travel time, offering unparalleled comfort and convenience to passengers.